Can you describe the factory in Treforis?
Yes, well it was the units that were built by the government on the Treforis estate,
they all seemed to be of one design.
They were very plain, nothing fancy at all, just a utilitarian building.
I think it was about 7 or 8,000 square foot and the building was, it had offices at the
front and it was divided roughly into half and the slightly bigger half, probably 55%,
was devoted to cigarette paper and the other 45% was the box making division.
And then when they built the new factory in 1946, that was again about another 8,000 square
foot on two stories which was added to the back.
And then they moved all the production.
By that time the box company had gone, that went in about 1943 when Mr. Wilhelm and my
father fell out and he took himself off up to I think Thunapia or somewhere up in the
valleys and then General Paper and Box just made cigarette paper and took over the whole buildings.
Were the boxes, were they originally to make the containers for the cigarette papers?
No, no, no.
They made boxes, well I don't know, you could put shoes in them, all that sort of thing.
Although of course they didn't do so well in the war because on the one hand there was
very little new stuff being produced and the one thing that you didn't need was luxury boxes.
So they did struggle a bit and the main revenue stream was from the cigarette paper.
And why did they move to Jaffar?
Well, when you wanted to set up a company and you wanted government assistance as they
did, they wanted a factory, you were directed where to go and there were three options I
think.
One was South Wales, one was Newcastle on Tyneside and the other was up in Scotland,
I think it was Cumbernauld where there was similar estates being built.
They thought that the least worst was South Wales and that's why so many Jewish companies
set up in Treforest.
Are you aware of any connection with South Wales before?
No, no, no, no.
That was the only reason why we came here.
I mean they would obviously much rather have gone to London or to one of the big centres
but that wasn't an option so we all came here.